=======
Support
=======

If you are facing an issue with Kurento Media Server, follow this basic check list:

* Step 1. Test with the **latest version** of Kurento Media Server: **|VERSION_KMS|**. Follow the installation instructions here: :doc:`/user/installation`.

* Step 2: If the problem still happens in the latest version, and the Kurento developers are already tracking progress for a solution in a bug report or a support contract, you may test the latest (unreleased) changes by installing a nightly version of KMS: :doc:`/user/installation_dev`.

* Step 3: When your issue exists in both the latest and nightly versions, try resorting to the :ref:`Open Source Community <support-community>`. Kurento users might be having the same issue and maybe you can find help in there.

* Step 4: If you want full attention from the Kurento team, get in contact with us to request :ref:`Commercial Support <support-commercial>`.



.. _support-community:

Community Support
=================

Kurento is a project mainly supported by its Open Source Community. **All people answering your questions are doing it with their own time, so please be kind and provide as much information as possible.**

The `Kurento Public Mailing List`_ is *the best place to ask* if you have questions about configuration, infrastructure, or general usage of Kurento Media Server.

Another option is `Stack Overflow`_; tag your questions with `kurento`_ so other folks can find them easily.

Good questions to ask would be:

- What is the best Media Pipeline to use for <place your use case here>?
- How do I check that the ICE connectivity checks are working properly for WebRTC?
- Which audio/video codec combination should I use to ensure no transcoding needs to take place?

.. _Kurento Public Mailing List: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kurento
.. _kurento:
.. _Stack Overflow: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/kurento?sort=frequent



Bugs & Support Issues
---------------------

You can file bug reports on our `Issue Tracker`_, and they will be addressed as soon as possible.

**Support is a volunteered effort**, and there is no guaranteed response time. If you need answers quickly, you can get in contact with us to request :ref:`Commercial Support <support-commercial>`.

.. _Issue Tracker: https://github.com/Kurento/bugtracker/issues



.. _support-reporting:

Reporting Issues
----------------

When reporting a bug, please include as much information as possible, this will help us solve the problem. Also, try to follow these guidelines as closely as possible, because they make it easier for people to work on the issue, and that means more chances that the issue gets fixed:

- **Be proactive**. If you are working with an old version of Kurento, please check with newer versions, specially with the :doc:`nightly version </user/installation_dev>`. We can't emphasize this enough: *it's the first thing that we are going to ask*.

- **Be curious**. Has it been asked before? Is it really a bug? Everybody hates duplicated reports. The Search tool is your friend!

- **Be precise**. Don't wander around your situation and go straight to the point, unless the context around it is technically required to understand what is going on. Describe as precisely as possible what you are doing and what is happening but you think that shouldn't happen.

- **Be specific**. Explain how to reproduce the problem, being very systematic about it: step by step, so others can reproduce the bug. Also, report *only one problem per opened issue*.

If you definitely think you have hit a bug, try to include these in your bug report:

- A description of the problem (e.g. what type of abnormal effect you are seeing).
- A detailed specification of what you were executing (e.g. a specific code snippet firing the bug).
- A detailed description of the execution environment (e.g. browser, operating system, KMS version, etc).
- The **relevant** log generated by KMS, browser and, eventually, application server. Make sure to honor the *relevant* part: providing a 50MB log where only 10 lines are of interest *is not* providing a relevant log.
- **A proof-of-concept is of great help**. This may need a bit of upfront work on your side, to isolate the actual component that presents issues from the rest of your application logic. Doing this will hugely increase the chances that developers of Kurento start working right away on the issue, if they are able to reproduce the problem without needing to have your whole system in place.



.. _support-commercial:

Commercial Support
==================

Kurento is formed by a small team of people. This means that our task pipeline is quite restricted, and most feature or support requests end up being stored in the backlog for a long time. We advance as fast as we can, but time and resources are limited and at the end of the day there is so much that we can do.

If you have some needs that require urgent attention, or want to help with funding development on the Kurento project, we offer consultancy and support services on demand.

Please contact us at kurento@openvidu.io and let us know about your project!
