kurento-integration-tests/kurento-test/README.md, before:

[![][KurentoImage]][website]

Copyright © 2013 Kurento. Licensed under [LGPL License].

kmf-media-api
==========
Kurento Media Manager API

The Kurento kmf-media-api project allows server applications to control media server resources.

What is Kurento
-----
Kurento provides an open platform for video processing and streaming
based on standards.

This platform has several APIs and components which provide solutions
to the requirements of multimedia content application developers.
These include

  * Kurento Media Server (KMS). A full featured media server providing
    the capability to create and manage dynamic multimedia pipelines.
  * Kurento Media Framework (KMF). A Java server-side API providing
    the required abstractions for creating applications that manage
    multimedia content, calls and conferences involving audio, video
    and data information.
  * Kurento Web SDK (KWS). A client-side HTML5 and Javascript SDK for
    accessing KMF capabilities
  * Kurento Android SDK (KAS). A Java and native SDK allowing easy
    integration of KMF into any kind of Android application.

Downloads
---------
To download binary releases of Kurento components visit http://kurento.org

Source
------
The source code of this project can be cloned from the [GitHub Repository].
Code for other Kurento projects can be found in the [GitHub Kurento Group].

News and Website
----------------
Information about Kurento can be found on our [website].
Follow us on Twitter @[kurentoms].

[KurentoImage]: https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/21a2a12c56b2a91c8918d5779f1778bf?s=120
[LGPL License]: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl-2.1.html
[GitHub Repository]: https://github.com/kurento/kmf-media-api
[GitHub Kurento Group]: https://github.com/kurento
[website]: http://kurento.org
[kurentoms]: http://twitter.com/kurentoms

Commit message:

Update README.md files from projects removing kmf
Change-Id: Iaed38683697d206826f28854a161ba6d7cf3a5cd

kurento-integration-tests/kurento-test/README.md, after:

[![][KurentoImage]][website]

Copyright © 2013 Kurento. Licensed under [LGPL License].

kurento-test
==========
End to end tests to Kurento. It contains tests using WebRTC support from Chrome
and Firefox as the primary players.

What is Kurento
---------------
Kurento provides an open platform for video processing and streaming
based on standards.

This platform has several APIs and components which provide solutions
to the requirements of multimedia content application developers.
These include:

  * Kurento Media Server (KMS). A full featured media server providing
    the capability to create and manage dynamic multimedia pipelines.
  * Kurento Control Server (KCS). Signaling server for KMS. It provides
    extra capabilities such as security, load balance, and so on.
  * Kurento Clients. Libraries to create applications with media
    capabilities. Kurento provides libraries for Java, browser JavaScript,
    and Node.js.

Downloads
---------
To download binary releases of Kurento components visit http://kurento.org

Source
------
The source code of this project can be cloned from the [GitHub Repository].
Code for other Kurento projects can be found in the [GitHub Kurento Group].

News and Website
----------------
Information about Kurento can be found on our [website].
Follow us on Twitter @[kurentoms].

[KurentoImage]: https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/21a2a12c56b2a91c8918d5779f1778bf?s=120
[LGPL License]: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl-2.1.html
[GitHub Repository]: https://github.com/Kurento/kurento-java
[GitHub Kurento Group]: https://github.com/kurento
[website]: http://kurento.org
[kurentoms]: http://twitter.com/kurentoms
