========================================
Kurento 00.00 Release Notes (UNRELEASED)
========================================

This is a template for changes that are being added to the next release.

Kurento 00.00.0 was released on 31 March 1999.

.. The latest bug-fix release in the stable 00.00 series is `00.00.1 <#00.00.1>`__ and was released on 31 March 1999.

See https://doc-kurento.readthedocs.io/en/latest/project/relnotes/00.00.html for the latest version of this document.

To install Kurento Media Server: :doc:`/user/installation`.

.. contents:: Table of Contents



Added
=====

* **Small addition**. Description.



Big addition name
-----------------

Full description, with images, code samples, external links, etc. Some useful syntax examples:

* Documentation section: :doc:`/user/tutorials`.

* Glossary term: :term:`SDP`.

* Inline link: `How to avoid Data Channel breaking <https://blog.mozilla.org/webrtc/how-to-avoid-data-channel-breaking/>`__.

* Blocks:

  .. code-block:: java

     System.out.println("Some example Java code");

  .. code-block:: text

     Some literal command output

  .. note::

     Something to keep in mind.

Thanks to `@Username <https://github.com/Username>`__ (Full Name, if available) for `Kurento/kurento#{issue_id} <https://github.com/Kurento/kurento/issues/{issue_id}>`__ (*Issue title*).
Thanks to `@Username <https://github.com/Username>`__ (Full Name, if available) for `Kurento/kurento#{pr_id} <https://github.com/Kurento/kurento/pull/{pr_id}>`__ (*Pull Request title*).



Changed
=======

* Description.



Deprecated
==========

* Description.



Fixed
=====

* Description.



Other changes
=============

This list includes other changes and fixes contributed by users and/or fellow developers, who merit our sincere appreciation and thanks for sharing their work with the Kurento project:

**RepoName 1**

* "Username for PR" ...

**RepoName 2**

* "Username for PR" ...
