======================================
Kurento 7.1 Release Notes (UNRELEASED)
======================================

Kurento 7.1.0 is a minor version release over last 7.0.0 version. This new release updates Ubuntu base system to 
latest stable version 24.04 (noble) thus also updating GStreamer base pacakge to 1.24 version. It also provide some 
other updates and to the Kurento components.

Kurento 7.1.0 was originally released on september 2024.

.. The latest `bug-fix release <#bug-fix-releases>`__ in the stable 7.1 series is **7.1.1**.

See https://doc-kurento.readthedocs.io/en/latest/project/relnotes/7.1.html for the latest version of this document.

To install Kurento Media Server: :doc:`/user/installation`.

.. contents:: Table of Contents



Added
=====

* **Update to Ubuntu 24.04**. Base OS system has been updated to latest stabe version noble (24.04).  This includes several base packages updates, including GStreamer, libnice and libsoup.
* **Update to GStreamer 1.24.2**, GStreamer is updated to 1.24.04 which benefits the stability and performance of all the underying system.
* **Update to libnice 0.1.21** 
* **UPdate to libSoup 3.4.4**,
* **Added DTLS state**, On WebRTCEndpoint, now DTLS state is reflected on a status property and changes are communicated to application throough Kurento events
* **Added VP9 support**, Thanks to the update to GStreamer we hae been able to add VP9 support to Kurento, including WebRTC VP9 support 
* **Initial AV1 support**, Initial AV1 support has been added to Kurento, however it is ot yet functional for WebRTC



..
   Bug-fix releases
   ================

   None yet published