kurento-media-server/README.md, before:

[![][KurentoImage]][Kurento]

Copyright © 2013-2016 [Kurento]. Licensed under [LGPL v2.1 License].

kurento-media-server
====================

# Supported tags

* 6.1.0 ([kurento-media-server/Dockerfile](https://github.com/kurento/kurento-docker/blob/master/kurento-media-server/Dockerfile))

# How to use this image

## Start a `kurento-media-server` instance

Starting a Kurento media server instance is easy. Kurento media server exposes
port 8888 for client access. So, assuming you want to map port 8888 in the
instance to local port 8888, you can start kurento media server with:

```console $ docker run --name kms -p 8888:8888 -d
kurento/kurento-media-server:6.1.0 ```

To check that kurento media server is ready and listening, issue the following
command (you need to have curl installed on your system):

```console
$ curl -i -N -H "Connection: Upgrade" -H "Upgrade: websocket" -H "Host: 127.0.0.1:8888" -H "Origin: 127.0.0.1" http://127.0.0.1:8888/kurento
```

You will get something like:

```console
1:8888/kurento
HTTP/1.1 500 Internal Server Error
Server: WebSocket++/0.5.1
```

Don't worry about the second line (`500 Internal Server Error`). It's ok,
because we are not talking the protocol kurento media server expects, we are
just checking that the server is up and listening for connections.

## Kurento media server logs

The kurento media server log is available through the usual way Docker exposes
logs for its containers. So assuming you named your container `kms` (with
`--name kms` as we did above):

```console
$ docker logs kms
```

## Environment variables

Kurento media server exposes an environment variable `GST_DEBUG` that can be
used to set the debug level of kurento media server:

```console
$ docker run -d --name kms -e GST_DEBUG=Kurento*:5 kurento/kurento-media-server:6.1.0
```

## Get help about kurento media server

```console
$ docker run --rm kurento/kurento-media-server:6.1.0 --help
```

Kurento
=======

What is Kurento
---------------

Kurento is an open source software project providing a platform suitable 
for creating modular applications with advanced real-time communication
capabilities. For knowing more about Kurento, please visit the Kurento
project website: http://www.kurento.org.

Kurento is part of [FIWARE]. For further information on the relationship of 
FIWARE and Kurento check the [Kurento FIWARE Catalog Entry]

Kurento is part of the [NUBOMEDIA] research initiative.

Documentation
-------------

The Kurento project provides detailed [documentation] including tutorials,
installation and development guides.

Source
------

Code for other Kurento projects can be found in the [GitHub Kurento Group].

News and Website
----------------

Check the [Kurento blog]
Follow us on Twitter @[kurentoms].

Issue tracker
-------------

Issues and bug reports should be posted to the [GitHub Kurento bugtracker]

Licensing and distribution
--------------------------

Software associated to Kurento is provided as open source under GNU Library or
"Lesser" General Public License, version 2.1 (LGPL-2.1). Please check the
specific terms and conditions linked to this open source license at
http://opensource.org/licenses/LGPL-2.1. Please note that software derived as a
result of modifying the source code of Kurento software in order to fix a bug
or incorporate enhancements is considered a derivative work of the product.
Software that merely uses or aggregates (i.e. links to) an otherwise unmodified
version of existing software is not considered a derivative work.

Contribution policy
-------------------

You can contribute to the Kurento community through bug-reports, bug-fixes, new
code or new documentation. For contributing to the Kurento community, drop a
post to the [Kurento Public Mailing List] providing full information about your
contribution and its value. In your contributions, you must comply with the
following guidelines

* You must specify the specific contents of your contribution either through a
  detailed bug description, through a pull-request or through a patch.
* You must specify the licensing restrictions of the code you contribute.
* For newly created code to be incorporated in the Kurento code-base, you must
  accept Kurento to own the code copyright, so that its open source nature is
  guaranteed.
* You must justify appropriately the need and value of your contribution. The
  Kurento project has no obligations in relation to accepting contributions
  from third parties.
* The Kurento project leaders have the right of asking for further
  explanations, tests or validations of any code contributed to the community
  before it being incorporated into the Kurento code-base. You must be ready to
  addressing all these kind of concerns before having your code approved.

Support
-------

The Kurento project provides community support through the  [Kurento Public
Mailing List] and through [StackOverflow] using the tags *kurento* and
*fiware-kurento*.

Before asking for support, please read first the [Kurento Netiquette Guidelines]

[documentation]: http://www.kurento.org/documentation
[FIWARE]: http://www.fiware.org
[GitHub Kurento bugtracker]: https://github.com/Kurento/bugtracker/issues
[GitHub Kurento Group]: https://github.com/kurento
[kurentoms]: http://twitter.com/kurentoms
[Kurento]: http://kurento.org
[Kurento Blog]: http://www.kurento.org/blog
[Kurento FIWARE Catalog Entry]: http://catalogue.fiware.org/enablers/stream-oriented-kurento
[Kurento Netiquette Guidelines]: http://www.kurento.org/blog/kurento-netiquette-guidelines
[Kurento Public Mailing list]: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kurento
[KurentoImage]: https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/21a2a12c56b2a91c8918d5779f1778bf?s=120
[LGPL v2.1 License]: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl-2.1.html
[NUBOMEDIA]: http://www.nubomedia.eu
[StackOverflow]: http://stackoverflow.com/search?q=kurento
[Docker]: https://www.docker.com/

Commit message:

Added links to readthedocs.org and apiary.io in README
Change-Id: Ibed60f28141eea739e95735d281190d2f2b2182f

kurento-media-server/README.md, after:

[![][KurentoImage]][Kurento]

Copyright © 2013-2016 [Kurento]. Licensed under [LGPL v2.1 License].

kurento-media-server
====================

# Supported tags

* 6.1.0 ([kurento-media-server/Dockerfile](https://github.com/kurento/kurento-docker/blob/master/kurento-media-server/Dockerfile))

# How to use this image

## Start a `kurento-media-server` instance

Starting a Kurento media server instance is easy. Kurento media server exposes
port 8888 for client access. So, assuming you want to map port 8888 in the
instance to local port 8888, you can start kurento media server with:

```console $ docker run --name kms -p 8888:8888 -d
kurento/kurento-media-server:6.1.0 ```

To check that kurento media server is ready and listening, issue the following
command (you need to have curl installed on your system):

```console
$ curl -i -N -H "Connection: Upgrade" -H "Upgrade: websocket" -H "Host: 127.0.0.1:8888" -H "Origin: 127.0.0.1" http://127.0.0.1:8888/kurento
```

You will get something like:

```console
1:8888/kurento
HTTP/1.1 500 Internal Server Error
Server: WebSocket++/0.5.1
```

Don't worry about the second line (`500 Internal Server Error`). It's ok,
because we are not talking the protocol kurento media server expects, we are
just checking that the server is up and listening for connections.

## Kurento media server logs

The kurento media server log is available through the usual way Docker exposes
logs for its containers. So assuming you named your container `kms` (with
`--name kms` as we did above):

```console
$ docker logs kms
```

## Environment variables

Kurento media server exposes an environment variable `GST_DEBUG` that can be
used to set the debug level of kurento media server:

```console
$ docker run -d --name kms -e GST_DEBUG=Kurento*:5 kurento/kurento-media-server:6.1.0
```

## Get help about kurento media server

```console
$ docker run --rm kurento/kurento-media-server:6.1.0 --help
```

Kurento
=======

What is Kurento
---------------

Kurento is an open source software project providing a platform suitable 
for creating modular applications with advanced real-time communication
capabilities. For knowing more about Kurento, please visit the Kurento
project website: http://www.kurento.org.

Kurento is part of [FIWARE]. For further information on the relationship of 
FIWARE and Kurento check the [Kurento FIWARE Catalog Entry]

Kurento is part of the [NUBOMEDIA] research initiative.

Documentation
-------------

The Kurento project provides detailed [documentation] including tutorials,
installation and development guides. A simplified version of the documentation
can be found on [readthedocs.org]. The [Open API specification] (a.k.a. Kurento
Protocol) is also available on [apiary.io].

Source
------

Code for other Kurento projects can be found in the [GitHub Kurento Group].

News and Website
----------------

Check the [Kurento blog]
Follow us on Twitter @[kurentoms].

Issue tracker
-------------

Issues and bug reports should be posted to the [GitHub Kurento bugtracker]

Licensing and distribution
--------------------------

Software associated to Kurento is provided as open source under GNU Library or
"Lesser" General Public License, version 2.1 (LGPL-2.1). Please check the
specific terms and conditions linked to this open source license at
http://opensource.org/licenses/LGPL-2.1. Please note that software derived as a
result of modifying the source code of Kurento software in order to fix a bug
or incorporate enhancements is considered a derivative work of the product.
Software that merely uses or aggregates (i.e. links to) an otherwise unmodified
version of existing software is not considered a derivative work.

Contribution policy
-------------------

You can contribute to the Kurento community through bug-reports, bug-fixes, new
code or new documentation. For contributing to the Kurento community, drop a
post to the [Kurento Public Mailing List] providing full information about your
contribution and its value. In your contributions, you must comply with the
following guidelines

* You must specify the specific contents of your contribution either through a
  detailed bug description, through a pull-request or through a patch.
* You must specify the licensing restrictions of the code you contribute.
* For newly created code to be incorporated in the Kurento code-base, you must
  accept Kurento to own the code copyright, so that its open source nature is
  guaranteed.
* You must justify appropriately the need and value of your contribution. The
  Kurento project has no obligations in relation to accepting contributions
  from third parties.
* The Kurento project leaders have the right of asking for further
  explanations, tests or validations of any code contributed to the community
  before it being incorporated into the Kurento code-base. You must be ready to
  addressing all these kind of concerns before having your code approved.

Support
-------

The Kurento project provides community support through the  [Kurento Public
Mailing List] and through [StackOverflow] using the tags *kurento* and
*fiware-kurento*.

Before asking for support, please read first the [Kurento Netiquette Guidelines]

[documentation]: http://www.kurento.org/documentation
[FIWARE]: http://www.fiware.org
[GitHub Kurento bugtracker]: https://github.com/Kurento/bugtracker/issues
[GitHub Kurento Group]: https://github.com/kurento
[kurentoms]: http://twitter.com/kurentoms
[Kurento]: http://kurento.org
[Kurento Blog]: http://www.kurento.org/blog
[Kurento FIWARE Catalog Entry]: http://catalogue.fiware.org/enablers/stream-oriented-kurento
[Kurento Netiquette Guidelines]: http://www.kurento.org/blog/kurento-netiquette-guidelines
[Kurento Public Mailing list]: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kurento
[KurentoImage]: https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/21a2a12c56b2a91c8918d5779f1778bf?s=120
[LGPL v2.1 License]: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl-2.1.html
[NUBOMEDIA]: http://www.nubomedia.eu
[StackOverflow]: http://stackoverflow.com/search?q=kurento
[Docker]: https://www.docker.com/
[Read-the-docs]: http://read-the-docs.readthedocs.org/
[readthedocs.org]: http://kurento.readthedocs.org/
[Open API specification]: http://kurento.github.io/doc-kurento/
[apiary.io]: http://docs.streamoriented.apiary.io/
