===================
6.12.1 (UNRELEASED)
===================

Kurento Media Server **6.12.1** has been released!

To install it: :doc:`/user/installation`.

Added
=====

- Description.

Changed
=======

- kurento-utils-js: Dropped use of legacy `offerToReceiveAudio` / `offerToReceiveVideo` in `RTCPeerConnection.createOffer(options)`, in favor of the **Transceiver** API. This was needed because Safari does not implement the legacy attributes. As of this writing, all of Firefox, Chrome and Safari have good working support for RTCPeerConnection transceivers, with `RTCPeerConnection.addTransceiver() <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCPeerConnection/addTransceiver>`__.

Deprecated
==========

- Description.

Fixed
=====

- Description.



Big change
==========

Full description, with images, code samples, external links, etc.

Some useful syntax examples:

* Documentation section: :doc:`/user/tutorials`

* Glossary term: :term:`SDP`

* Inline link: `How to avoid Data Channel breaking <https://blog.mozilla.org/webrtc/how-to-avoid-data-channel-breaking/>`__

* Code block:

  .. code-block:: text

     Text in the code block



Thanks for the change
---------------------

* `@Username <https://github.com/Username>`__ for `Kurento/bugtracker#IssueNum <https://github.com/Kurento/bugtracker/issues/IssueNum>`__ (Issue title).
* `@Username <https://github.com/Username>`__ (Full Name) for `Kurento/bugtracker#IssueNum <https://github.com/Kurento/bugtracker/issues/IssueNum>`__ (Issue title).
* `@Username <https://github.com/Username>`__ for `Kurento/kurento-jsonrpc-js#PrNum <https://github.com/Kurento/kurento-jsonrpc-js/pull/PrNum>`__ (PR title).



More thanks
===========

There were many other changes and fixes contributed by users; these maybe didn't have an impact big enough to be featured in these Release Notes, but nevertheless their authors merit our sincere appreciation and thanks for sharing their work with the greater community:

**RepoName**

* ...

**RepoName**

* ...
