source/mastering_kurento.rst, before:

%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
Mastering Kurento
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

Kurento Architecture
====================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   Kurento Architecture <mastering/kurento_architecture>

Kurento API Reference
=====================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   Kurento API Reference <mastering/kurento_API>

Kurento Protocol
================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   Kurento Protocol <mastering/kurento_protocol>

Advanced Installation Guide
===========================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   Advanced Installation Guide <mastering/advanced_installation_guide>

Kurento Development
===================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   Kurento Development <mastering/kurento_development>

..
   Kurento Modules
   ===============

   .. toctree::
      :maxdepth: 1

      Kurento Modules <mastering/kurento_modules>

Java Kurento Client JavaDoc
===========================

* `kurento-client-java <./langdoc/javadoc/index.html>`_

JavaScript Kurento Client JsDoc
===============================

* `kurento-client-js <./langdoc/jsdoc/kurento-client-js/index.html>`_

JavaScript Kurento Utils JsDoc
==============================

* `kurento-utils-js <./langdoc/jsdoc/kurento-utils-js/index.html>`_

Commit message:

Renamed "Kurento Development" section to "Working with nightly builds"
Change-Id: I7fb561e3f3c683548b71668188edfb037cf0e66a

source/mastering_kurento.rst, after:

%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
Mastering Kurento
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

Kurento Architecture
====================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   Kurento Architecture <mastering/kurento_architecture>

Kurento API Reference
=====================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   Kurento API Reference <mastering/kurento_API>

Kurento Protocol
================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   Kurento Protocol <mastering/kurento_protocol>

Advanced Installation Guide
===========================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   Advanced Installation Guide <mastering/advanced_installation_guide>

Working with nightly builds
===========================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   Working with nightly builds <mastering/kurento_development>

..
   Kurento Modules
   ===============

   .. toctree::
      :maxdepth: 1

      Kurento Modules <mastering/kurento_modules>

Java Kurento Client JavaDoc
===========================

* `kurento-client-java <./langdoc/javadoc/index.html>`_

JavaScript Kurento Client JsDoc
===============================

* `kurento-client-js <./langdoc/jsdoc/kurento-client-js/index.html>`_

JavaScript Kurento Utils JsDoc
==============================

* `kurento-utils-js <./langdoc/jsdoc/kurento-utils-js/index.html>`_
