source/what_is_kurento.rst, before:

.. _What_is_Kurento:

.. image:: images/kurento-rect-logo3.png
   :alt:    Creating client applications through Kurento APIs
   :align:  center
   :scale: 50 %

%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
What's Kurento?
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

**Kurento** is a development framework aimed to create rich multimedia
applications in Internet with real time audio and video.

The core element is **Kurento Server**, responsible for media transmission,
processing, loading and recording. It is implemented in low level technologies
based on :term:`GStreamer` to optimize the resource consumption. It provides
the following features:

-  Networked streaming protocols, including :term:`HTTP` (working as client
   and server), :term:`RTP` and :term:`WebRTC`.
-  Generic support for computational vision and augmented reality filters.
-  Media storage supporting writing operations for :term:`WebM` and
   :term:`MP4` and reading operations for any of *Gstreamer's* muxers.
-  Automatic media transcodification between any of the codecs supported by
   Gstreamer.

There are available :term:`Kurento Client` libraries in
`Java <http://www.java.com/>`__ and
`Javascript <http://www.w3.org/standards/webdesign/script>`__ to control
Kurento Server from applications. If you prefer another programming language,
you can use the :term:`Kurento Protocol`, based on :term:`WebSocket` and
:term:`JSON-RPC`.

Kurento is open source, released under the terms of
`LGPL version 2.1 <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl-2.1.html>`__ license. Its
source code is hosted on `GitHub <https://github.com/Kurento>`__.

If you want to put your hands on quickly, the best way is
:doc:`installing the Kurento Server<installation_guide>` and take a look to our
:doc:`tutorials<tutorials>` in form of working demo applications. You can
choose your favorite technology to build multimedia applications: **Java**,
**Browser JavaScript** or **Node.js**.

If you want to want to make the most of Kurento, please take a look to the
:doc:`advanced documentation<mastering_kurento>`. There you find information
about the :doc:`Kurento Archicture<mastering/kurento_architecture>`,
:doc:`Kurento Media Elements<mastering/kurento_media_elements>`,
:doc:`Kurento Protocol<mastering/kurento_protocol>`,
:doc:`Kurento Server Advanced Installation Guide<mastering/advanced_installation_guide>`,
:doc:`Kurento API<mastering/kurento_API>`,
:doc:`how to develop Kurento Modules<mastering/kurento_server>`, and
:doc:`how to get nightly Kurento nersions<mastering/kurento_development>`.

Finally, if you would like to contribute to Kurento take a look to the
:doc:`repository structure<contribute/repository>` and also
:doc:`how to build Kurento Media Server<contribute/building_kms>`.

Commit message:

Improved readability and structure
Change-Id: I1d07fd7f0bbda63421941c7d77147d1d241deaf7

source/what_is_kurento.rst, after:

.. _What_is_Kurento:

.. image:: images/kurento-rect-logo3.png
   :alt:    Creating client applications through Kurento APIs
   :align:  center
   :scale: 50 %

%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
What's Kurento?
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

**Kurento** is a WebRTC media server and a set of client APIs making
simple the development of advanced video applications for WWW and smartphone
platforms. Kurento features include group communications, transcoding,
recording, mixing, broadcasting and routing of audiovisual flows. 

Kurento also provides advanced media processing capabilities involving
computer vision, video indexing, augmented reality and speech analysis. 
Kurento modular architecture makes simple the integration of third party
media processing algorithms (i.e. speech recognition, sentiment analysis,
face recognition, etc.), which can be transparently used by application
developers as the rest of Kurento built-in features.

Kurento's core element is **Kurento Media Server**, responsible for media
transmission, processing, loading and recording. It is implemented in low
level technologies based on :term:`GStreamer` to optimize the resource consumption.
It provides the following features:

-  Networked streaming protocols, including :term:`HTTP` (working as client
   and server), :term:`RTP` and :term:`WebRTC`.
-  Group communications (MCUs and SFUs functionality) supporting both media
   mixing and media routing/dispatching.
-  Generic support for computational vision and augmented reality filters.
-  Media storage supporting writing operations for :term:`WebM` and
   :term:`MP4` and playing in all formats supported by *GStreamer*.
-  Automatic media transcodification between any of the codecs supported by
   GStreamer including VP8, H.264, H.263, AMR, OPUS, Speex, G.711, etc.

There are available :term:`Kurento Client` libraries in
`Java <http://www.java.com/>`__ and
`Javascript <http://www.w3.org/standards/webdesign/script>`__ to control
Kurento Server from applications. If you prefer another programming language,
you can use the :term:`Kurento Protocol`, based on :term:`WebSocket` and
:term:`JSON-RPC`.

Kurento is open source, released under the terms of
`LGPL version 2.1 <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl-2.1.html>`__ license. Its
source code is hosted on `GitHub <https://github.com/Kurento>`__.

If you want to put your hands on quickly, the best way is
:doc:`installing the Kurento Server<installation_guide>` and take a look to our
:doc:`tutorials<tutorials>` in form of working demo applications. You can
choose your favorite technology to build multimedia applications: **Java**,
**Browser JavaScript** or **Node.js**.

If you want to make the most of Kurento, please take a look to the
:doc:`advanced documentation<mastering_kurento>`.
